---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 7
permalink: /cs373/week7
---

This week was started off by the discussion of more powerful Python features. One of those features was the idea of using * to accept n number of arguments in a function definition and storing those arguments into a tuple. The idea of handling multiple arguments is something that I wouldn’t have thought up of. Reason being is because the user of a function should adhere to the required number of arguments that is specified by the function. Regardless, I think it’s a neat feature that makes Python more versatile and user-friendly.

Another feature along the same lines of using * is during a function call. Because of the similar functionality of using * in a function definition to unpack the arguments into a tuple, I initially thought that you could only pass in tuples if the function definition parameter had a * next to the variable. I had to learn the concept the hard way. Through the quizzes that you can pass in any type of collection (lists, sets, dictionaries, tuples) and all of them will be stored in a tuple.

We also started discussing function types and Decorators, but my understanding of them is still quite fuzzy because of the test the next day. The only understanding I have of decorators so far is that I used them sparingly during my internship to define class and static methods.

In retrospect, the test was fair. However, I had some trouble coming up with complete solutions for some of the questions. It had to do with the experience I had with the discussion above, about the * operator. Since I didn’t know what to expect on the exam, so my pacing for the test was not what I expected. I took too much time on the questions I knew, making sure the syntax was right. This means that for the new questions, I was forced to be more creative in a short amount of time. What was disappointing for the new questions was that I knew what I had to do, but the constraint of the question is what threw me off. I setup the structure for the solution, but its by no means complete. I’m pretty worried how much partial credit they will give/deduct. Either way, what’s done is done, and I got to enjoy myself at ACL yesterday before going back to the grind.

###Tip of the week:
Microsoft’s Surface Book just came out this week, and its intended to compete with the Macbook Pro. Here’s a comparison between the two: http://gizmodo.com/microsoft-surface-vs-macbook-a-head-to-head-compariso-1734989232
