---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 6
permalink: /cs373/week6
---

Professor Downing continued to go over the implementations for native Python functions (RangeIterator, AllOf, and the Range class) this week. The notion of actually implementing the functions by hand through the exercises that he does in class reinforces the concept that I wouldn’t have otherwise gotten if I were to attempt it myself.

However, I’m questioning why we are doing this in the first place. Prior to taking this class, I’ve always heard that we shouldn’t reinvent the wheel if there are already libraries that achieve what we want. I figured that it depends on the situation and that reinventing the wheel isn’t a bad thing if you really want to get into the nitty gritty of certain functions that are taken for granted.

Either way, I’m not too fond of implementing these functions manually because it really challenges you to create something from scratch. It’s a growing pain that I will have to get used to because technical interviews use the same approach.

Luckily, the exercises that are done in class are representative of what is going to be on the test this upcoming week. At the moment, I’m still struggling to create a class/function from scratch but hopefully I will be more comfortable once I drill down the example code. I have a feeling the test will be very difficult if Professor Downing doesn’t assign a project during test week. Regardless, I’ll prepare the best I can before this upcoming Thursday.

###Tip of the week
Apple’s latest OS, El Capitan, released this past week! Although there isn’t a significant change from Yosemite, performance improvements can be seen drastically. Mission Control and multiple desktops is what I utilize the most. Seeing the speed improvements on these features greatly improved my workflow.
https://www.apple.com/osx/whats-new/
