---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 1
permalink: /cs371p/week1
---

For this semester, I’m taking two classes under Professor Downing, Software Engineering and Object Oriented Programming. This blog post reflects on my experiences so far for the Object Oriented Programming course.

On my Software Engineering blog, I made some comments about Professor Downing. For the tl;dr version, he is pretty awesome.

I’ve never programmed in C++ before, so I feel like this class, compared to the Software Engineering class, will be more difficult in terms of learning the content. Luckily its paradigms are similar to Java, but I know that the nuances of the syntax will be the death of me. I finally got a chance to look into what “cout << … << endl” was, and I got to say, its very manual to code compared to a “System.out.print” in Java or just a simple “print” in Python. I guess it’s that way because of C, which is totally barebones coding.

I learned a good bit about Assertions and Unit Tests. In my past internship this summer, we had to use these tools. I was unfamiliar at first, but I made some progress towards understanding their uses in industry. However in class, Professor Downing made a clear distinction about assertions only testing code that you can change on the fly and not for executed user code. He also mentions using Unit Tests if you want to persist through failed assertions, instead of bombing out of execution. As a result of this discussion, I’m more aware of their existence and how powerful they can be if you use it correctly.


### Tip of the week
Though it’s the first week, the way Professor Downing drills down the code line by line suggests that studying the code meticulously is a great way to get a grasp of the concepts being taught for that week. Speaking of, I will go review/study the code for tomorrow.
