---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 9
permalink: /cs373/week9
---

The first phase of the IDB project was due this week. We managed to submit whatever we had before the deadline, but I felt like the work we put in wasn’t our best.

Learning the required technologies for the project in a short amount of time greatly inhibited our ability to do what we would have liked. The description of the course highlights several technologies that we were planning to use. However, since we delegated tasks to each other for the project, I didn’t necessarily get hands on with some of the technologies that my other team members had. It goes without saying that they also would have liked to get hands on with the technologies I was using.  But I digress; the fact that the technologies were integrated into our project is enough for me to further explore them after the course is over.  Hopefully I’ll get to use some of them in the next phase of the project.

For the lectures, we went over the different types of relational algebra (select, project, cross join, theta join, and natural join). For me it was a good refresher on these database concepts since I know some interviewers mention basic database concepts. I appreciated how Professor Downing drilled us on implementing these joins in Python. It allowed me to notice how the input and outputs were configured in Python.


###Tip of the week:
In terms of development for the IDB project, I had to use virtual environments in order to use Flask effectively. I’ve gone over many tutorials on how to setup a virtual environment, but most of them were unsuccessful due to configuration issues. This article sealed the deal for me in terms of successfully creating a virtual environment: http://hackercodex.com/guide/python-development-environment-on-mac-osx/
