---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 5
permalink: /cs373/week5
---

This week was all about HackTX. As an organizer of HackTX, I was engulfed in the preparation prior to the event. Fortunately, the hackathon went very smoothly, despite minor hiccups during food hours. I enjoyed being in the process of organizing the hackathon and step back to see how hackathons are facilitated in general.

Getting exposure to these native Python functions and their internal mechanisms have made me think a little bit about the philosophical implications that were put into the design of the functions, such as readability and optimizations behind the scenes. I can tell that these functions are pretty powerful, but I can see a slight learning curve when it comes to learning and using these functions effectively. I appreciate that Professor Downing is drilling us with the exercises to really force us to think about how some of the Pyhton functions work.

We had a guest lecturer from Jet Propulsion Laboratories, who was a UT alumni. My impression of JPL is along the lines of pushing innovation for space exploration. The main theme around his presentation was the notion of human-computer interaction, which is only natural for space related pursuits. Ranging from integration with the HoloLens/Oculus to the observation of Mars space craft, I can see the potential in these technologies to break barriers that we currently here in regards to life beyond earth.

###Tip of the week
Not necessarily a tip, but heres an image of the blood moon eclipse, which happened today, which has not occurred since 1982!  http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/09/150924-super-total-lunar-eclipse-moon-sky-watching-viewing/
