---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 8
permalink: /cs373/week8
---

Now that the first test is out of the way, the focus is on the main highlight of the course, the IMDB-like project that requires tracking of some type of information. For my group, we chose to create a website database that tracks information about American made vehicles. The entire group, including myself, has little experience in the technologies that are required for the project. So there was some difficulty delegating tasks to each person. I was in charge of making the report and setting up the RESTful api on Apiary. Usually, I would be very motivated to embark in these types of projects, but the logistics has not motivated me enough to be proactive.

I’m used to working with 2-3 people at a time. Some may say 5 isn’t a lot, but for me, it was difficult to adjust myself and to be able to check up on what everyone is doing. All of the required technologies that we are supposed to implement have overwhelmed me a bit. During meetups, a huge portion of the time was spent configuring the software so that it was compatible with each of our machines as well as the server.  Nevertheless, I hope that my impressions of the project will change once the project gets rolling.

###Tip of the week:
Learning new software technologies are always hard at first due to the amount of information you need to digest. I would recommend taking it slow to get familiar with the core features and reference StackOverflow for configuration issues.
