---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 4
permalink: /cs373/week4
---

Compared to the pace that Professor Downing was going last week, I would say that this week’s pace was 10 times faster.  Therefore, the content for Software Engineering and Object Oriented Programming are finally different!

We started discussing the logistics of the next project Netflix, which was really confusing at first, but it was basically just coming up with the best sets of numbers to provide the best prediction (therefore reducing the root mean square error). My partner and I had a lot of trouble creating the cache files by parsing through the entire training set files (it took forever). We eventually decided to use a cache with the probe answers provided by a colleague and assigned those answers with the ids for the customers in the probe text. We met the requirement of executing the program in less than 1 min and generated an RMSE of less than 1.00. We’re hoping to optimize the cache files so that the RMSE could be less than 0.95.

Professor Downing surveyed some Python built in functions like zip, range, reduce, map, lambdas and how they functioned in different ways. He also talked about eager versus lazy mechanisms within Python data structures (list is eager, tuple is lazy). He ended the week with generators, which from my understanding essentially makes an iterator whenever the yield keyword is encountered.

As you can see, this is a lot of new Python information to digest. The importance of reviewing his example code is more prevalent now. Hopefully by the end of the week, I can set some time to review it.

In the meantime, projects and the career fair serve as the bulk of this week, with a dose of reviewing previous material while going to campus.


### Tip of the week:
The buzz is going on about the situation of a Texas high school student bringing a clock built from scratch, but was mistaken for a bomb. Its pretty disheartening that negative attitudes rise from this type of innovation, but I’m glad that higher figures, like Mark Zuckerberg and President Obama give praise to the student in aims to promote STEM related pursuits. Here’s an article from CNN if you want to know more about it: http://www.cnn.com/2015/09/16/us/texas-student-ahmed-muslim-clock-bomb/
