---
layout: cs373-post
title: CS 373 Week 2
permalink: /cs373/week2
---

At the start of the second week, we were assigned the first project. This project focuses on the Collatz conjecture, stating that for any given positive integer greater, you will always reach 1 if you apply the given rules:

If the current number is even, divide that number by 2.
If the current number is odd, multiply that number by 3 then add 1.

Not surprisingly this problem is NP-Hard (you will recognize this term if you’ve taken CS 331!), in other words, this problem has not been proven to be universally true. This problem is also a well known in competitive programming, so the solution had to be relatively short.

Of course the problem was easy to code up the simplest, brute-force solution, but there’s always ways to optimize it. When Professor Downing mentioned different types of caching methods for optimization (lazy, eager, meta), I immediately thought of the concept of memoization and dynamic programming and how powerful it is to store previously computed values for quick lookups.

So the lectures for this week also involved the logistics of the project, and I was overwhelmed at first because I spent the majority of the time trying to configure the best development setup because I ran into many problems configuring the required software on my Macbook Air.

I’ve looked into many options, including a modular setup with the ssh terminal and a text editor with sftp (Sublime, GitHub Atom), and installing a VM with Ubuntu on it. However, I ended up using the PyCharm IDE that had ssh and sftp built-in. So far it has been good to manage the files and run ssh on one program instead of switching between a terminal ssh and the text editor. Hopefully I will keep on using this program in the later projects.



### Tip of the week
Though I prefer developing locally, if you have to use the UTCS lab machines through ssh/sftp, I recommend checking out the JetBrains products, namely PyCharm. It handles the majority of the configurations that you would have to manually setup for ssh and sftp. I read another colleague’s blog about the student discount for the professional editions of the software, and I encourage you to do the same, assuming that you also took advantage of GitHub’s student developer pack.
https://www.jetbrains.com/student/
