---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 2
permalink: /cs371p/week2
---

Note: Since I’m taking both OOP and SWE, the weekly blog for this week is similar. Once the topics and projects start to deviate from each other, the blogs will be different.

At the start of the second week, we were assigned the first project. This project focuses on the Collatz conjecture, stating that for any given positive integer greater, you will always reach 1 if you apply the given rules:

If the current number is even, divide that number by 2.
If the current number is odd, multiply that number by 3 then add 1.

Not surprisingly this problem is NP-Hard (you will recognize this term if you’ve taken CS 331!), in other words, this problem has not been proven to be universally true. This problem is also a well known in competitive programming, so the solution had to be relatively short.

Of course the problem was easy to code up the simplest, brute-force solution, but there’s always ways to optimize it. When Professor Downing mentioned different types of caching methods for optimization (lazy, eager, meta), I immediately thought of the concept of memoization and dynamic programming and how powerful it is to store previously computed values for quick lookups.

So the lectures for this week also involved the logistics of the project, and I was overwhelmed at first because I spent the majority of the time trying to configure the best development setup because I ran into many problems configuring the required software on my Macbook Air.

I’ve looked into many options, including a modular setup with the ssh terminal and a text editor with sftp (Sublime, GitHub Atom), and installing a VM with Ubuntu on it. I’ve looked into the JetBrains products, namely PyCharm for the SWE class and CLion for this class. CLion just released recently, so I hope that it has the same features that I used with PyCharm.


### Tip of the week
Recruiting season is upon us! Update your resume, review concepts for CS 314, and practice interviewing and talking to recruiters! If you’re a freshman or sophomore and you think it isn’t worth your time because you won’t be qualified enough for an interview, I suggest that you go anyways.

The experience of a career fair is something you won’t get anywhere else. You get to practice interacting with the recruiters so that in the future, you’ll be more comfortable and prepared with what you want to say.

In the meantime, embark in some side projects outside of school. You don’t have to completely finish; getting exposure to projects that you’re interested in brings great talking points during interviews. If you don’t know where to start with side projects, I highly suggest going to a hackathon, which is basically an event where you can learn and explore the current technologies to build something in a short amount of time. HackTX is this month! Go and register. You won’t regret it.
