---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 5
permalink: /cs371p/week5
---

This week was all about HackTX. As an organizer of HackTX, I was engulfed in the preparation prior to the event. Fortunately, the hackathon went very smoothly, despite minor hiccups during food hours. I enjoyed being in the process of organizing the hackathon and step back to see how hackathons and its culture are facilitated in general.

Professor Downing started to drill C++ functions, including copy, fill, and equal in order for us to understand the internal mechanisms underlying these functions. I figured that its important to understand these concepts through which we take them for granted. What bothers me (maybe I just haven’t been used to it for awhile) is the management of pointers signifying the start of the array and incrementing that pointer to traverse through the array. I feel like this design decision will inherently lead to problems with pointers, which happened on the Voting project. Luckily, other languages are more vernacular to express what an array is. This is obviously an added layer of abstraction that helps the users understand the library more effectively.

We had a guest lecturer from Jet Propulsion Laboratories, who was a UT alumni. My impression of JPL is along the lines of pushing innovation for space exploration. The main theme around his presentation was the notion of human-computer interaction, which is only natural for space related pursuits. Ranging from integration with the HoloLens/Oculus to the observation of Mars space craft, I can see the potential in these technologies to break barriers that we currently here in regards to life beyond earth.

###Tip of the week
Not necessarily a tip, but heres an image of the blood moon eclipse, which happened today, which has not occurred since 1982!  http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/09/150924-super-total-lunar-eclipse-moon-sky-watching-viewing/
