---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 9
permalink: /cs371p/week9
---

The allocator project was due this week. Compared to the last two projects, I would say that this one wasn’t too bad. When I met up with my partner to work on the project, the problems we ran into were C++ pointer syntax and general pointer arithmetic. Luckily, these problems didn’t require a lot of time to debug, since we were able to spot them very quickly. The benefits of pair programming come into play here. We both sat down and deliberately went through our implementation line by line and explained to one another what we have intended to do within the code.

Being used to writing acceptance tests after we were done, I was surprised that we didn’t have to do it this time. Obviously it’s good to get used to writing acceptance tests, but this week was hectic for me due to other projects. So it was a nice break to allow me to wrap up on this project and wait for the next project to be released.

The topics this week was easier than the past few weeks, probably because it was related to the allocator project. Professor Downing discussed the implementation of the Vector container. More specifically, he focused on the constructor and the runtime analysis of the allocation. It was interesting to see how the initial setup of the vector can be reduced with the allocation implementation we created.

After that, Professor Downing proceeded to introduce more C++ nuances, mainly in the realm of implicit type converters and the “explicit” keyword. I’ll have to review them sometime this week.

###Tip of the week:
Not specific to this week, but just for Downing’s classes in general, make sure to go through the project specs carefully! The project descriptions are overwhelming at first, but its necessary to get used to because it will be the same if not more in industry. Decompose the project specs into sections so that it is manageable to digest.
