---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 6
permalink: /cs371p/week6
---

Professor Downing continued to go over the implementations for native C++ functions (AllOf, Lambdas, and RangeIterator) this week. The notion of actually implementing the functions by hand through the exercises that he does in class reinforces the concept that I wouldn’t have otherwise gotten if I were to attempt it myself.

I understand most of the concepts presented in class, but again, the nuance of C++ syntax is still something I’m not too familiar with yet. It was really difficult to engage in the class exercises because I couldn’t write C++ code effectively. The syntax of Lambdas, pointers/references, and classes inhibited my understanding of the concepts presented in class. I hope to catch up with the material and resolve the issues that I had before the test this upcoming Thursday.

In order expose myself to the syntax, I went on HackerRank and did some of the tutorials regarding C++. While doing some of the tutorials, I realized I had a major roadblock that I needed to resolve quickly. I had limited working knowledge of the C++ libraries. I spent an hour reading through the C++ documentation and noting some of the common methods used (File IO, arrays, strings, conversion). Luckily, the documentation is reminiscent of Java, so I was able to understand it relatively quick.

###Tip of the week
Apple’s latest OS, El Capitan, released this past week! Although there isn’t a significant change from Yosemite, performance improvements can be seen drastically. Mission Control and multiple desktops is what I utilize the most. Seeing the speed improvements on these features greatly improved my workflow.
https://www.apple.com/osx/whats-new/
