---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 4
permalink: /cs371p/week4
---

The week began with the discussion about the Australian Voting project, which was essentially a system with picked winners based on the ballots and their listed preferences. At a high level, it seemed that the project was manageable. However, as my partner and I started implementing the solution, our understanding of the syntax was challenged frequently. Although with careful debugging, I hope to resolve these problems.

As I stated back in my first post, the nuances of the C++ syntax/concepts are starting to get to me. However, this growing pain started quite mildly (hehe :)) with an in-depth review of pointers and references along with their contexts.

Here’s my basic understanding of them so far:

A pointer next to a variable ‘dereferences’ that variable in order to get the value.
*p

A pointer next to a data type declares that pointer to be of that data type.
int* p

A reference next to a variable gets the memory address that a particular variable resides in.
&i = [memory address]

A reference next to a data type creates a symbolic link to the right hand value in a initialization. Therefore, references MUST BE INTIALIZED.
int& r = i;


But of course, I need to review these concepts from time to time so that I am comfortable with them.

Professor Downing also discussed pointers and references applied to arguments, but I’m still in the process of digesting them.

### Tip of the week:
For practicing coding interview questions, it’s okay to look at the solution if you’re having trouble thinking of an approach for some time. For me personally, the interview questions take time to figure out, and I would have to end up looking at the solution to think of the process it takes to get to that answer.

There are variations of the same problem. If you’re able to recognize its nature compared to previous problems that you solved, its only a matter of tweaking those solutions to fit the problem at hand.
