---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 7
permalink: /cs371p/week7
---

This week we continued to talk about iterators and how to apply that to the class Range iterator example. Fortunately, the Software Engineering class that I’m taking is discussing the same concept of iterators, so I shifted my focus on topics that make C++ harder to work with. Namely, the syntax of a C++ class was the hardest thing to wrap my mind around, considering that Python is so much easier to work with.

In the middle of the week, we started talking about arrays. The main takeaway from that discussion is to treat them like pointers instead of an actual data structure (which doesn’t make sense to me since I’m apprehensive to all things C/C++). I didn’t really focus too much on the discussion because I still had to study for the test the next day.

In preparation of the test, I studied with my partner for the last project and was able to drill down the code for the in-class iterator example and question why C++ classes looked this way. I also drilled down the types of iterators/built-in C++ functions and their respective attributes, and again, questioned why they were what they were. Since I drilled pointers/references prior to studying for the test, it was easy to review them in a short amount of time. I think my biggest test preparation tip, other than running through the review topics Downing posted on Piazza, is to just deliberately write down the code exercises done in class verbatim and repeat 5 to 10 times. As mentioned in previous blog posts, C++ syntax is very contrived and it was hard to nit pick very single exception that C++ might’ve implemented that goes against the vernacular syntax of other languages. The process of rewriting code might be an ineffective study method, but when the test requires you to write code and you’ve been looking at/programming code up until the test, I would say it’s necessary to do.

As a result of the preparation for the test, I thought the test was fair and going though the iterators, built-in C++ functions, and rewriting the code made it worth the effort.

I relieved my post exam stress by going to ACL. Now I’m back on the grind ready to go.

###Tip of the week:
Microsoft’s Surface Book just came out this week, and its intended to compete with the Macbook Pro. Here’s a comparison between the two: http://gizmodo.com/microsoft-surface-vs-macbook-a-head-to-head-compariso-1734989232
