---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 8
permalink: /cs371p/week8
---

The next project, implementing a heap, was assigned this week. When Professor Downing went over the logistics, I understood the conceptual requirements that the project would entail. However, upon looking at the project template, I was very confused of its structure. It also didn’t help that my partner and I were able to meet only once this week. I took it slow, buckled down, and drilled the code line by line to familiarize myself on what is going on.  As a result of drilling the code, I was able to start the implementation of some of the required functions. When I meet with my partner, I hope to resolve the issues and errors I may have made, given the benefits of pair programming.

For the lecture content, Professor Downing went over Arrays and FunctionDefaults. Conceptually, it was nice to review them, so I many focused myself on the syntax once again. Luckily this time, there wasn’t anything archaic, though some exceptions in the syntax can be a little bit misleading.


### Tip of the week:
Don’t forget to wind down and sleep! I lost hours of sleep due to studying for the test one week ago, so I was hoping to make up some of that this weekend. Unfortunately, the project required some time so I am still lacking sleep. However, that’s not an excuse to sleep at a reasonable hour (if you consider yourself a nightowl, you’re an exception). Sleep helps you and your mind recover so that you can be more productive during the day. And when you are productive, you can produce quality code versus when you’re half awake.
