---
layout: post
title: CS 373 Week 1
permalink: /cs373/week1
---

For this semester, I’m taking two classes under Professor Downing, Software Engineering and Object Oriented Programming. This blog post reflects on my experiences so far for the Software Engineering course.

Before talking about the course itself, I would like to make some opinions about Professor Downing himself. Many of my colleagues that have previously taken his class can vouch for how effective he is as a lecturer. Right from the get-go, he tells us that his purpose for teaching is to allow us to be awesome engineers in the software industry. Rarely you will find professors that actually want to help you advance your career, and that’s refreshing and new during my time as a UTCS student. I’ve noticed that he actively engages his class and actually calls out on people to walkthrough a piece of code with him. Though I’m initially uncomfortable in these types of situations, I realize that this feeling of uneasiness is the push I need to grow in my career. I hope you will realize this too.

As for the course, I have really high hopes for trying out the technologies that we are planning to use for the projects. In my past internship in the summer, I was disappointed that the company I was interning for didn’t use relatively new technologies that UTCS promotes us to use. With that in mind, I’m looking forward to experimenting with these technologies in the upcoming weeks.


### Tip of the week

Jekyll is pretty awesome for writing blogs! The logistics of setting up and getting the jist of the Jekyll structure can be confusing at first, but that can be said for any new software that you are trying out. If you want to be an effective software engineer, then maintaining a personal blog will help you along the way.
