---
layout: cs371p-post
title: CS 371p Week 2
permalink: /cs371p/week2
---

This week, we only had two classes due to Monday being Labor Day. Despite the name, I spent most of that day working on the project mainly due to following the instructions very closely. Although I spent way too much time on this first project, I felt that it was necessary so that I can gauge my workflow and my pacing for the next project.

On Wednesday, Chris Martin from Bloomberg LP came in and chatted with us about his experience and the technologies that he used while working there. What surprised me about his talk was that some of the services like bug tracking (TREQ) and instant messaging (Instant Bloomberg) where created from ground up. I guess at the dawn of the digital age, you have to create something that no one else has done yet. The graphical visualization tool that he demoted also fascinated me, which showcased the relationship between the suppliers and customers for a particular company (he used Apple for instance). I want to get involved with stock trading in the near future, and his talk has further motivated me to pursue that interest.

On Friday, Professor Downing went over exceptions and the motivations behind it. Again like assertions and unit tests, exceptions were covered during my past internship this summer and I didn’t have much experience with them. The discussion about exceptions enabled me to understand the usefulness and can improve the logic structure behind your code. I’m looking forward to exploring this topic on Monday just to see how I can use it more efficiently and coherently in the future.


### Tip of the week
Glassdoor. This site is the holy grail of job hunting and information gathering. The career fair is coming up, and so I suggest that you use this site to gain insight about the companies that you want to talk to. I usually go to the Overview section of a company to see what they do and then click the Salaries and Interviews sections to gain personal judgment whether the company suits my needs as a software engineer/developer and what questions I need to prepare for.
